(RFC 1848 published October 1995, subtype last updated October 1995)

(1)  MIME type name: application

(2)  MIME subtype name: mosskey-data

(3)  Required parameters: none

(4)  Optional parameters: none

(5)  Encoding considerations: quoted-printable is always sufficient.

(6)  Security Considerations: none

The content of this body part corresponds to the following
production.

   <mosskeydata>   ::= <version>
                       ( <publickeydata> / <certchain> / <crlchain> )

   <version>       ::= "Version:" "5" CRLF

   <publickeydata> ::= "Key:" "PK" "," <publickey> ","
                       <id-subset> CRLF

   <certchain>     ::= <cert> *( [ <crl> ] <cert> )

   <crlchain>      ::= 1*( <crl> [ <cert> ] )

   <cert>          ::= "Certificate:" <encbin> CRLF

   <crl>           ::= "CRL:" <encbin> CRLF

This content type is used to transfer public keys, certificate
chains, or Certificate Revocation List (CRL) chains.  The information
in the body part is entirely independent of any other body part.
(Note that the converse is not true: the validity of a protected body
part cannot be determined without the proper public keys,
certificates, or current CRL information.)  As such, the
application/mosskey-data content type is an independent body part.

The <publickeydata> production contains exactly one public key.  It
is used to bind a public key with its corresponding name form and key
selector.  It is recommended that when responders are returning this
information that the enclosing body part be digitally signed by the
responder in order to protect the information.  The <id-subset> token
is defined in Section 4.2.4.

The <certchain> production contains one certificate chain.  A
certificate chain starts with the requested certificate and continues
with the certificates of subsequent issuers.  Each issuer certificate
included must have issued the preceding certificate.  For each
issuer, a CRL may be supplied.  A CRL in the chain belongs to the
immediately following issuer.  Therefore, it potentially contains the
immediately preceding certificate.

The <crlchain> production contains one certificate revocation list
chain.  The CRLs in the chain begin with the requested CRL and
continue with the CRLs of subsequent issuers.  The issuer of each CRL
is presumed to have issued a certificate for the issuer of the
preceding CRL.  For each CRL, the issuer's certificate may be
supplied.  A certificate in the chain must belong to the issuer of
the immediately preceding CRL.

The relationship between a certificate and an immediately preceding
CRL is the same in both <certchain> and <crlchain>.  In a <certchain>
the CRLs are optional.  In a <crlchain> the certificates are
optional.
