

Date: Wed, 21 Jun 1995 16:48:16 +0100 (BST)
From: Nick Smith <nas&ant.co.uk>


MIME type name: application

MIME subtype name: riscos

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters: name, type, load, exec, access

Encoding considerations:

Acorn RISC OS filetypes cover a wide range of file formats, some of
which are 7-bit ASCII, but mostly are 8-bit binary formats. There are
no (RISC OS imposed) limits on line lengths. Parts will typically be
encoded as 7bit or Base64.

Security considerations:

Executable images may be sent with this subtype - the user should
explicitly make the decision to run any executable, not the MUA.

Published specification:

This document. For further details, see the RISC OS Programmers
Reference Manuals, published by Acorn Computers Ltd, ISBN
1-85250-110-3.

Parameters
----------

NAME=3D3D"<filename>,<filetype>"

Name parameter can give just filename, or the fully specified
filepath, with a 3 or 4 digit hex number that is the encoded filetype
of the file contained. If the filetype field is missing, then choose a
sensible default based on the encoding type.  

  eg, NAME=3D3D"README,fff" 
  eg, NAME=3D3D"SCSI::HardDisc.$.Mail.SpoolFile,0dc"
  
TYPE=3D3D"<filetype>"

Filetype in textual form. The remote MUA may not understand a
particular filetype (because the user does not have the relevant
editor package), and so this field can clue the user as to what they
need to run the file.  This field has a maximum width of 8 bytes, and
may contain spaces.

  eg, TYPE=3D3D"Text"
  eg, TYPE"ImpDoc"
  
LOAD=3D3D<load addr>

Load address of file, as an 8-digit hex number (32-bit word). In the
case of a filetyped file, this contains the filetype, and part of the
coded 5-byte time-date stamp for the file (see PRMs for more details).

  eg, LOAD=3D3D&FFF01234

EXEC=3D3D<exec addr>

Execution address of file, as an 8-digit hex number (32-bit word).  In
the case of a filetyped file, this contains part of the encoded 5-byte
time- date stamp for the file (see PRMs for more details).

  eg, EXEC=3D3D&0035FD23
  
ACCESS=3D3D<access byte>

This is the encoded file access bits as a 2-digit hex number (8-bit
byte).  Currently only certain bit fields are defined to map to access
permissions.  See PRMs for details of currently defined bit fields.

  eg, ACCESS=3D3D&02
      
Person & email address to contact for further information:

N.A.Smith, ANT Limited,PO Box 300,Cambridge,CB1 2EG, UK.
<nas&ant.co.uk>

N.B.Van Someren, 24 Hooper Street,Cambridge,CB1 2NZ, UK.
<nicko&ant.co.uk>

[]










