(RFC 4267 published November 2005, subtype last updated November 2005)

MIME media type name: application

MIME subtype names: voicexml+xml, ssml+xml, srgs+xml, ccxml+xml,
pls+xml

Required parameters: none

Optional parameters:

"charset": This parameter has identical semantics to the charset
parameter of the "application/xml" media type as specified in RFC
3023 [RFC3023].

Encoding Considerations

Identical to those of "application/xml" as described in RFC 3023
[RFC3023], section 3.2.

Interoperability Considerations

There are no known interoperability issues.

Published Specifications


Voice Extensible Markup Language 2.0 [VoiceXML2.0]

Voice Extensible Markup Language 2.1 [VoiceXML2.1]

Speech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML) Version 1.0 [SSML]

Speech Recognition Grammar Specification Version 1.0 [SRGS]

Voice Browser Call Control: CCXML Version 1.0 [CCXML]

Pronunciation Lexicon Specification (PLS) Version 1.0 [PLS]


Applications that Use These Media Types

Various W3C Speech Interface Framework implementations use these
media types.

Security Considerations

Several instructions in the cited specifications may cause arbitrary
Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) to be dereferenced. In this
case, the security issues of [RFC3986], section 7, should be
considered.

In addition, because of the extensibility features of those
specifications, it is possible that the registered media types may
describe content that has security implications beyond those
described here. However, if the processor follows only the normative
semantics of the specifications, this content will be ignored. Only
in the case where the processor recognizes and processes the
additional content, or where further processing of that content is
dispatched to other processors, would security issues potentially
arise. And in that case, they would fall outside the domain of this
registration document.

Additional Information

Magic Numbers

Although no byte sequences can be counted on to always be present,
XML MIME entities in ASCII-compatible charsets (including UTF-8)
often begin with hexadecimal 3C 3F 78 6D 6C ("<?xml"), and those in
UTF-16 often begin with hexadecimal FE FF 00 3C 00 3F 00 78 00 6D 00
6C or FF FE 3C 00 3F 00 78 00 6D 00 6C 00 (the Byte Order Mark (BOM)
followed by "<?xml"). For more information, see Appendix F of [XML].

File Extensions

VoiceXML files: .vxml

SSML files: .ssml

SRGS files (XML syntax): .grxml

CCXML files: .ccxml

PLS files: .pls


Fragment Identifiers

Identical to that of "application/xml" as described in RFC 3023
[RFC3023], section 5.

Macintosh File Type Code

"TEXT"

Person and Email Address to Contact for Further Information

World Wide Web Consortium <web-human&w3.org>

Intended Usage

COMMON

Change Controller

The Speech Interface Framework specifications set is a work product
of the World Wide Web Consortium's Voice Browser Working Group. The
W3C has change control over these specifications.