                                                                   OAuth Parameters

   Created
           2012-07-27

   Last Updated
           2019-06-17

   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           XML [IMG]
           HTML [IMG]
           Plain text

   Registries included below

     * OAuth Access Token Types
     * OAuth Authorization Endpoint Response Types
     * OAuth Extensions Error Registry
     * OAuth Parameters
     * OAuth Token Type Hints
     * OAuth URI
     * OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata
     * OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods
     * PKCE Code Challenge Methods
     * OAuth Token Introspection Response
     * OAuth Authorization Server Metadata

OAuth Access Token Types

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Hannes Tschofenig

   Reference
           [RFC6749][RFC8414]

   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

                           Name                         Additional Endpoint HTTP Authentication Change Controller             Reference
                                                        Response Parameters      Scheme(s)
   Bearer                                                                   Bearer              IETF              [RFC6750]
   N_A (TEMPORARY - registered 2019-06-17, expires                                              IESG              [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2020-06-17)

OAuth Authorization Endpoint Response Types

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Hannes Tschofenig

   Reference
           [RFC6749]

   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

          Name                         Change Controller                                               Reference
   code                IETF                                               [RFC6749]
   code id_token       [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-multiple-response-types-1_0.html]
   code id_token token [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-multiple-response-types-1_0.html]
   code token          [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-multiple-response-types-1_0.html]
   id_token            [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-multiple-response-types-1_0.html]
   id_token token      [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-multiple-response-types-1_0.html]
   none                [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-multiple-response-types-1_0.html]
   token               IETF                                               [RFC6749]

OAuth Extensions Error Registry

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Hannes Tschofenig

   Reference
           [RFC6749]

   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

           Name                Usage           Protocol Extension                        Change Controller                                        Reference
                             Location
                           resource
invalid_request            access error  bearer access token type        IETF                                               [RFC6750]
                           response
                           resource
invalid_token              access error  bearer access token type        IETF                                               [RFC6750]
                           response
                           resource
insufficient_scope         access error  bearer access token type        IETF                                               [RFC6750]
                           response
                           revocation
unsupported_token_type     endpoint      token revocation endpoint       IETF                                               [RFC7009]
                           error
                           response
interaction_required       authorization OpenID Connect                  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                           endpoint
login_required             authorization OpenID Connect                  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                           endpoint
session_selection_required authorization OpenID Connect                  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                           endpoint
consent_required           authorization OpenID Connect                  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                           endpoint
invalid_request_uri        authorization OpenID Connect                  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                           endpoint
invalid_request_object     authorization OpenID Connect                  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                           endpoint
request_not_supported      authorization OpenID Connect                  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                           endpoint
request_uri_not_supported  authorization OpenID Connect                  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                           endpoint
registration_not_supported authorization OpenID Connect                  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                           endpoint
                           authorization
need_info (and its         server
subsidiary parameters)     response,     Kantara UMA                     [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.3.6]
                           token
                           endpoint
                           authorization
                           server
request_denied             response,     Kantara UMA                     [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.3.6]
                           token
                           endpoint
                           authorization
request_submitted (and its server
subsidiary parameters)     response,     Kantara UMA                     [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.3.6]
                           token
                           endpoint
                           Token
authorization_pending      endpoint      [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15] IETF                                               [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15, Section 3.5]
                           response
                           Token
access_denied              endpoint      [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15] IETF                                               [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15, Section 3.5]
                           response
                           Token
slow_down                  endpoint      [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15] IETF                                               [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15, Section 3.5]
                           response
                           Token
expired_token              endpoint      [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15] IETF                                               [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15, Section 3.5]
                           response
invalid_target (TEMPORARY  token error
- registered 2019-06-17,   response      OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange        IETF                                               [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
expires 2020-06-17)

OAuth Parameters

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Hannes Tschofenig

   Reference
           [RFC6749]

   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

                           Parameter
           Name              Usage                     Change Controller                                          Reference
                           Location
                         authorization
   client_id             request,      IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token request
   client_secret         token request IETF                                               [RFC6749]
   response_type         authorization IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         request
                         authorization
   redirect_uri          request,      IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token request
                         authorization
                         request,
                         authorization
   scope                 response,     IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token
                         request,
                         token
                         response
                         authorization
   state                 request,      IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         authorization
                         response
                         authorization
   code                  response,     IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token request
                         authorization
   error                 response,     IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token
                         response
                         authorization
   error_description     response,     IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token
                         response
                         authorization
   error_uri             response,     IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token
                         response
   grant_type            token request IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         authorization
   access_token          response,     IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token
                         response
                         authorization
   token_type            response,     IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token
                         response
                         authorization
   expires_in            response,     IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token
                         response
   username              token request IETF                                               [RFC6749]
   password              token request IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token
   refresh_token         request,      IETF                                               [RFC6749]
                         token
                         response
   nonce                 authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   display               authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   prompt                authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   max_age               authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   ui_locales            authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   claims_locales        authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   id_token_hint         authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   login_hint            authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   acr_values            authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   claims                authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   registration          authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   request               authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
   request_uri           authorization [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         request
                         authorization
   id_token              response,     [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html]
                         access token
                         response
                         authorization
   session_state         response,     [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-session-1_0.html]
                         access token
                         response
   assertion             token request IESG                                               [RFC7521]
   client_assertion      token request IESG                                               [RFC7521]
   client_assertion_type token request IESG                                               [RFC7521]
   code_verifier         token request IESG                                               [RFC7636]
   code_challenge        authorization IESG                                               [RFC7636]
                         request
   code_challenge_method authorization IESG                                               [RFC7636]
                         request
                         client
   claim_token           request,      [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.3.1]
                         token
                         endpoint
                         client
   pct                   request,      [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.3.1]
                         token
                         endpoint
                         authorization
                         server
   pct                   response,     [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.3.5]
                         token
                         endpoint
                         client
   rpt                   request,      [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.3.1]
                         token
                         endpoint
                         client
   ticket                request,      [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.3.1]
                         token
                         endpoint
                         authorization
                         server
   upgraded              response,     [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.3.5]
                         token
                         endpoint
                         authorization
   vtr                   request,      IESG                                               [RFC8485]
                         token request
   device_code           token request IESG                                               [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15, Section 3.1]
   resource (TEMPORARY -
   registered            token request IESG                                               [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-06-17, expires
   2020-06-17)
   audience (TEMPORARY -
   registered            token request IESG                                               [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-06-17, expires
   2020-06-17)
   requested_token_type
   (TEMPORARY -
   registered            token request IESG                                               [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-06-17, expires
   2020-06-17)
   subject_token
   (TEMPORARY -
   registered            token request IESG                                               [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-06-17, expires
   2020-06-17)
   subject_token_type
   (TEMPORARY -
   registered            token request IESG                                               [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-06-17, expires
   2020-06-17)
   actor_token
   (TEMPORARY -
   registered            token request IESG                                               [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-06-17, expires
   2020-06-17)
   actor_token_type
   (TEMPORARY -
   registered            token request IESG                                               [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-06-17, expires
   2020-06-17)
   issued_token_type
   (TEMPORARY -          token
   registered            response      IESG                                               [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-06-17, expires
   2020-06-17)

OAuth Token Type Hints

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required with mandatory two-week mailing list review

   Expert(s)

 Torsten Lodderstedt

   Reference
           [RFC7009]

   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

    Hint Value   Change Controller                 Reference
   access_token  IETF              [RFC7009]
   refresh_token IETF              [RFC7009]
   pct           [Kantara_UMA_WG]  [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0, Section 3.7]

OAuth URI

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Hannes Tschofenig

   Reference
           [RFC6755]

   Note

 Prefix: urn:ietf:params:oauth


   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

                             URN                                        Common Name                Change                  Reference
                                                                                                 Controller
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer              JWT Bearer Token Grant Type Profile  IESG       [RFC7523]
                                                            for OAuth 2.0
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer   JWT Bearer Token Profile for OAuth   IESG       [RFC7523]
                                                            2.0 Client Authentication
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:saml2-bearer            SAML 2.0 Bearer Assertion Grant Type IESG       [RFC7522]
                                                            Profile for OAuth 2.0
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:saml2-bearer SAML 2.0 Bearer Assertion Profile    IESG       [RFC7522]
                                                            for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:jwt                     JSON Web Token (JWT) Token Type      IESG       [RFC7519]
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code             Device flow grant type for OAuth 2.0 IESG       [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15, Section
                                                                                                            3.1]
                                                            Token exchange grant type for OAuth
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange          2.0 (TEMPORARY - registered          IESG       [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
                                                            2019-06-17, expires 2020-06-17)
                                                            Token type URI for an OAuth 2.0
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token            access token (TEMPORARY - registered IESG       [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
                                                            2019-06-17, expires 2020-06-17)
                                                            Token type URI for an OAuth 2.0
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:refresh_token           refresh token (TEMPORARY -           IESG       [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
                                                            registered 2019-06-17, expires
                                                            2020-06-17)
                                                            Token type URI for an ID Token
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token                (TEMPORARY - registered 2019-06-17,  IESG       [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
                                                            expires 2020-06-17)
                                                            Token type URI for a
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml1                   base64url-encoded SAML 1.1 assertion IESG       [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
                                                            (TEMPORARY - registered 2019-06-17,
                                                            expires 2020-06-17)
                                                            Token type URI for a
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2                   base64url-encoded SAML 2.0 assertion IESG       [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
                                                            (TEMPORARY - registered 2019-06-17,
                                                            expires 2020-06-17)

OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Justin Richer

   Reference
           [RFC7591]

   Note

 See [RFC7591]for mailing list information.


   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

        Client Metadata Name           Client Metadata Description                      Change Controller                         Reference
   redirect_uris                   Array of redirection URIs for use in IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   redirect-based flows
   token_endpoint_auth_method      Requested authentication method for  IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   the token endpoint
   grant_types                     Array of OAuth 2.0 grant types that  IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   the client may use
   response_types                  Array of the OAuth 2.0 response      IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   types that the client may use
   client_name                     Human-readable name of the client to IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   be presented to the user
   client_uri                      URL of a web page providing          IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   information about the client
   logo_uri                        URL that references a logo for the   IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   client
   scope                           Space-separated list of OAuth 2.0    IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   scope values
                                   Array of strings representing ways
   contacts                        to contact people responsible for    IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   this client, typically email
                                   addresses
                                   URL that points to a human-readable
   tos_uri                         terms of service document for the    IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   client
   policy_uri                      URL that points to a human-readable  IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   policy document for the client
                                   URL referencing the client's JSON
   jwks_uri                        Web Key Set [RFC7517] document       IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   representing the client's public
                                   keys
                                   Client's JSON Web Key Set [RFC7517]
   jwks                            document representing the client's   IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   public keys
   software_id                     Identifier for the software that     IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   comprises a client
   software_version                Version identifier for the software  IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   that comprises a client
   client_id                       Client identifier                    IESG                                               [RFC7591]
   client_secret                   Client secret                        IESG                                               [RFC7591]
   client_id_issued_at             Time at which the client identifier  IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   was issued
   client_secret_expires_at        Time at which the client secret will IESG                                               [RFC7591]
                                   expire
                                   OAuth 2.0 Bearer Token used to
   registration_access_token       access the client configuration      IESG                                               [RFC7592]
                                   endpoint
   registration_client_uri         Fully qualified URI of the client    IESG                                               [RFC7592]
                                   registration endpoint
                                                                                                                           [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   application_type                Kind of the application -- "native"  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   or "web"                                                                                incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   URL using the https scheme to be                                                        [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   sector_identifier_uri           used in calculating Pseudonymous     [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   Identifiers by the OP                                                                   incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   subject_type requested for responses                                                    [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   subject_type                    to this Client -- "pairwise" or      [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   "public"                                                                                incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   JWS alg algorithm REQUIRED for                                                          [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   id_token_signed_response_alg    signing the ID Token issued to this  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   Client                                                                                  incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   JWE alg algorithm REQUIRED for                                                          [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   id_token_encrypted_response_alg encrypting the ID Token issued to    [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   this Client                                                                             incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   JWE enc algorithm REQUIRED for                                                          [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   id_token_encrypted_response_enc encrypting the ID Token issued to    [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   this Client                                                                             incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                                                                                                           [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   userinfo_signed_response_alg    JWS alg algorithm REQUIRED for       [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   signing UserInfo Responses                                                              incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                                                                                                           [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   userinfo_encrypted_response_alg JWE alg algorithm REQUIRED for       [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   encrypting UserInfo Responses                                                           incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                                                                                                           [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   userinfo_encrypted_response_enc JWE enc algorithm REQUIRED for       [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   encrypting UserInfo Responses                                                           incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   JWS alg algorithm that MUST be used                                                     [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   request_object_signing_alg      for signing Request Objects sent to  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   the OP                                                                                  incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   JWE alg algorithm the RP is                                                             [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   request_object_encryption_alg   declaring that it may use for        [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   encrypting Request Objects sent to                                                      incorporating errata set
                                   the OP                                                                                  2]
                                   JWE enc algorithm the RP is                                                             [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   request_object_encryption_enc   declaring that it may use for        [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   encrypting Request Objects sent to                                                      incorporating errata set
                                   the OP                                                                                  2]
                                   JWS alg algorithm that MUST be used
                                   for signing the JWT used to                                                             [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   token_endpoint_auth_signing_alg authenticate the Client at the Token [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   Endpoint for the private_key_jwt and                                                    incorporating errata set
                                   client_secret_jwt authentication                                                        2]
                                   methods
                                                                                                                           [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   default_max_age                 Default Maximum Authentication Age   [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                                                                                                           incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   Boolean value specifying whether the                                                    [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   require_auth_time               auth_time Claim in the ID Token is   [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   REQUIRED                                                                                incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                                                                                                           [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   default_acr_values              Default requested Authentication     [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   Context Class Reference values                                                          incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   URI using the https scheme that a                                                       [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   initiate_login_uri              third party can use to initiate a    [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   login by the RP                                                                         incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
                                   Array of request_uri values that are                                                    [OpenID Connect Dynamic
   request_uris                    pre-registered by the RP for use at  [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] Client Registration 1.0
                                   the OP                                                                                  incorporating errata set
                                                                                                                           2]
   claims_redirect_uris            claims redirection endpoints         [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   [UMA 2.0 Grant for OAuth
                                                                                                                           2.0, Section 2]

OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Justin Richer

   Reference
           [RFC7591][RFC8414]

   Note

 See [RFC7591]for mailing list information.


   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

   Token Endpoint Authentication Method Name                 Change Controller                          Reference
   none                                      IESG                                               [RFC7591]
   client_secret_post                        IESG                                               [RFC7591]
   client_secret_basic                       IESG                                               [RFC7591]
   client_secret_jwt                         [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [OpenID Connect Core 1.0]
   private_key_jwt                           [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] [OpenID Connect Core 1.0]

PKCE Code Challenge Methods

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Unassigned

   Reference
           [RFC7636]

   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

   Code Challenge Method Parameter Name Change Controller        Reference
   plain                                IESG              [Section 4.2 of RFC7636]
   S256                                 IESG              [Section 4.2 of RFC7636]

OAuth Token Introspection Response

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Justin Richer

   Reference
           [RFC7662]

   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

                Name                              Description                Change Controller                      Reference
   active                          Token active status                       IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   username                        User identifier of the resource owner     IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   client_id                       Client identifier of the client           IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   scope                           Authorized scopes of the token            IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   token_type                      Type of the token                         IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   exp                             Expiration timestamp of the token         IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   iat                             Issuance timestamp of the token           IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   nbf                             Timestamp which the token is not valid    IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
                                   before
   sub                             Subject of the token                      IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   aud                             Audience of the token                     IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   iss                             Issuer of the token                       IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
   jti                             Unique identifier of the token            IESG              [RFC7662, Section 2.2]
                                   array of objects, each describing a
   permissions                     scoped, time-limitable permission for a   [Kantara_UMA_WG]  [Federated Authorization for UMA 2.0, Section 5.1.1]
                                   resource
   vot                             Vector of Trust value                     IESG              [RFC8485]
   vtm                             Vector of Trust trustmark URL             IESG              [RFC8485]
   act (TEMPORARY - registered     Actor                                     IESG              [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-02-05, expires 2020-02-05)
   may_act (TEMPORARY - registered May Act For                               IESG              [draft-ietf-oauth-token-exchange]
   2019-02-05, expires 2020-02-05)

OAuth Authorization Server Metadata

   Registration Procedure(s)

 Specification Required

   Expert(s)

 Michael Jones, Nat Sakimura, John Bradley

   Reference
           [RFC8414]

   Available Formats
           [IMG]
           CSV

                        Metadata Name                                   Metadata Description               Change              Reference
                                                                                                         Controller
   issuer                                                   Authorization server's issuer identifier URL IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
   authorization_endpoint                                   URL of the authorization server's            IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            authorization endpoint
   token_endpoint                                           URL of the authorization server's token      IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            endpoint
   jwks_uri                                                 URL of the authorization server's JWK Set    IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            document
   registration_endpoint                                    URL of the authorization server's OAuth 2.0  IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            Dynamic Client Registration Endpoint
                                                            JSON array containing a list of the OAuth
   scopes_supported                                         2.0 "scope" values that this authorization   IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            server supports
                                                            JSON array containing a list of the OAuth
   response_types_supported                                 2.0 "response_type" values that this         IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            authorization server supports
                                                            JSON array containing a list of the OAuth
   response_modes_supported                                 2.0 "response_mode" values that this         IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            authorization server supports
                                                            JSON array containing a list of the OAuth
   grant_types_supported                                    2.0 grant type values that this              IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            authorization server supports
                                                            JSON array containing a list of client
   token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported                    authentication methods supported by this     IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            token endpoint
                                                            JSON array containing a list of the JWS
                                                            signing algorithms supported by the token
   token_endpoint_auth_signing_alg_values_supported         endpoint for the signature on the JWT used   IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            to authenticate the client at the token
                                                            endpoint
                                                            URL of a page containing human-readable
   service_documentation                                    information that developers might want or    IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            need to know when using the authorization
                                                            server
                                                            Languages and scripts supported for the user
   ui_locales_supported                                     interface, represented as a JSON array of    IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            language tag values from [BCP47]
                                                            URL that the authorization server provides
                                                            to the person registering the client to read
   op_policy_uri                                            about the authorization server's             IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            requirements on how the client can use the
                                                            data provided by the authorization server
                                                            URL that the authorization server provides
   op_tos_uri                                               to the person registering the client to read IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            about the authorization server's terms of
                                                            service
   revocation_endpoint                                      URL of the authorization server's OAuth 2.0  IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            revocation endpoint
                                                            JSON array containing a list of client
   revocation_endpoint_auth_methods_supported               authentication methods supported by this     IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            revocation endpoint
                                                            JSON array containing a list of the JWS
                                                            signing algorithms supported by the
   revocation_endpoint_auth_signing_alg_values_supported    revocation endpoint for the signature on the IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            JWT used to authenticate the client at the
                                                            revocation endpoint
   introspection_endpoint                                   URL of the authorization server's OAuth 2.0  IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            introspection endpoint
                                                            JSON array containing a list of client
   introspection_endpoint_auth_methods_supported            authentication methods supported by this     IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            introspection endpoint
                                                            JSON array containing a list of the JWS
                                                            signing algorithms supported by the
   introspection_endpoint_auth_signing_alg_values_supported introspection endpoint for the signature on  IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            the JWT used to authenticate the client at
                                                            the introspection endpoint
   code_challenge_methods_supported                         PKCE code challenge methods supported by     IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2]
                                                            this authorization server
   signed_metadata                                          Signed JWT containing metadata values about  IESG       [RFC8414, Section 2.1]
                                                            the authorization server as claims
   device_authorization_endpoint                            URL of the authorization server's device     IESG       [RFC-ietf-oauth-device-flow-15,
                                                            authorization endpoint                                  Section 4]

                                                                        People

                           ID                                           Name                                 Contact URI               Last Updated
   [Kantara_UMA_WG]                                   Kantara Initiative User-Managed Access   mailto:staff&kantarainitiative.org      2018-04-23
                                                      Work Group
   [OpenID_Foundation_Artifact_Binding_Working_Group] OpenID Foundation Artifact Binding       mailto:openid-specs-ab&lists.openid.net 2015-12-03
                                                      Working Group
