Namespace Registration for International Standard Book Number (ISBN) 
ISO 2108:2017


Namespace ID:  ISBN Requested of IANA.


Version:  2 (revision of earlier registration, RFC 3187).


Date:  2017-06-12


Registrant:  


Name: Stella Griffiths
E-mail: stella&isbn-international.org
Affiliation: Executive Director, The International ISBN Agency Ltd
Address: International ISBN Agency Ltd c/o EDItEUR, United House, 
North Road, London, N7 9DP, U.K.
Web URL: http://www.isbn-international.org/

Requesting entity is a standards development organization revising 
the namespace registration which was based on an earlier version of 
the ISBN standard. 


Purpose:  

The ISBN (International Standard Book Number) is a unique 
machine-readable identifier, which identifies unambiguously any 
edition of a text-based monographic publication that is available to 
the public.  The identifier is defined in ISO Standard 2108.  The 
identifier has been in use for over 45 years and has revolutionised 
the international book trade. 150 countries and territories are 
officially ISBN members, and more are applying to join the system.

The administration of the ISBN system is carried out on three levels:
•   International ISBN agency,
•   ISBN registration agencies,
•   Registrants.

The International ISBN agency is located in London, UK.  The main 
functions of the International ISBN Agency are:

•   To promote, co-ordinate and supervise the world-wide use of the 
ISBN system.

•   To define registration groups and the areas to which they relate

•   To allocate ranges of unique registrant elements to specific 
registration groups for assignment by ISBN registration agencies

•   To advise on the establishment and functioning of ISBN 
registration agencies

•   To advise ISBN registration agencies on the allocation of 
registrant elements

•   To ensure that an accurate and complete register of GS1 elements, 
registration group elements and registrant elements is available.

Information about ISBN usage in general can be found on the 
International ISBN Agency website http://www.isbn-international.org/.


Syntax:  

The namespace-specific string of 'ISBN' URNs is either a 13 digit 
number (representing an ISBN-13) or a 10 digit number (representing 
an ISBN-10).In either 13 or 10 digit form, the ISBN  may present with
hyphens which are used to indicate the separate constituent parts of 
the number and for human readability. Hyphens are not semantically 
significant and are ignored during lexical comparison. In addition, 
the final "digit" of the 10-digit format may instead be an upper-case
"X".

All new ISBN assignments are based on ISBN-13. If a 10 digit ISBN is 
found on the resource, it should be converted to a 13 digit number, 
following the rules set out later in this section, before being 
encoded into the URN framework. According to the rules of the ISBN 
standard, such conversion does not create a new ISBN for the book, 
but a new representation of the existing ISBN.  

Editions of ISO 2108 up to and including the 1992 edition defined 
ISBN as a ten digit number (the last character could be an upper case
"X" as well) which was divided into four parts (three of which were 
of variable length) usually separated by optional hyphens when 
printed.  The parts were defined as follows and in this order:

•   a group identifier specifying a group of publishers, based on 
national, geographic, language or some other criteria;

•   the publisher identifier;

•   the title identifier; and

•   a modulo 11 check digit, using upper-case “X” instead of 10; the 
details of the calculation being specified in ISO 2108-1992 and 
earlier editions.

ISBN in 10 digit form is deprecated, but it remains possible to 
incorporate ISBN-10s in URN:

Example 1: URN:ISBN:951-0-18435-7 (ISBN-10)

ISBN-10 was in use from the 1970s until ISBN-13 replaced it in 
January 2007.

The ISBN in thirteen digit form is defined by the ISO Standard 
2108-2005 and later editions. It was previously referred to as 
“ISBN-13” to distinguish it from “ISBN-10”, but since all ISBNs are 
now valid only in the 13 digit format and ISBN-10 is deprecated, 
ISBN-13 should be referred to as “ISBN”, although in this document 
ISBN-13 is  used for the sake of clarity. 

The ISBN-13 is a thirteen digit number which is divided into five 
parts which may be separated by optional hyphens when printed. The 
first and the last parts have a fixed length, but the other parts 
have variable length.  The parts of ISBN-13 are defined as follows 
and in this order:

•   the GS1 element which is a 3 digit prefix (at the time of writing,
legal values were 978 and 979; additional values shall be defined and
confirmed at the appropriate time) specified by the International 
ISBN Agency;

•   a registration group element that specifies the registration 
group; it identifies the national, geographic, language, or other 
such grouping to which a publisher belongs;

•   the registrant element;

•   the publication element; and

•   a modulo 10 check digit.

Example 2: URN:ISBN:978-951-0-18435-6 (Example 1 expressed as ISBN-13)

Variable length elements have been allocated in such a way that the 
hyphens are not necessary for machine to machine transmission since 
only certain registrant element ranges are valid in any given 
registration group. The registration group and registrant element 
rules are devised and maintained by the International ISBN Agency. 
They are available from 
https://www.isbn-international.org/range_file_generation.

Q-component semantics is undefined at the time of writing. 

When an ISBN identifies a book in a single product form (e.g. a book 
in PDF format), F-component may be used. However, if an ISBN 
identifies a publication or series that is comprised of multiple 
volumes such as The Lord of the Rings, f-component is not applicable.

R-component semantics is undefined at the time of writing. 

Rules for Lexical Equivalence:

Since ISBN-13 is the canonical form for ISBN, all equivalence 
checking should be performed using that format.

Checking for lexical equivalence should be performed as follows:

•   If the NSS is an ISBN-10, first convert it to ISBN-13: the GS1 
element 978 should be inserted before the first 9 digits of the 
10-digit ISBN which are then followed by a revised check digit 
calculated using the modulus 10 check digit formula as described in 
the ISBN Users’ Manual.

•   Remove all hyphens from the NSSs 

•   If the modified NSSs are equivalent on a character-by-character 
basis, the URNs are equivalent, otherwise not.

Rules for Semantic Equivalence
Where an invalid or incorrect ISBN has subsequently been corrected, 
each of the incorrect and correct ISBNs can be regarded as 
semantically equivalent because they both refer to the same product. 
However, resolving these URN:ISBNs may produce different results. For
instance, the publisher’s bibliographic database may contain only the
incorrect ISBN assigned by the publisher, while the national 
bibliography usually contains both ISBNs. 


ISBN assignment:

ISBNs are assigned according to the rules of the ISBN Standard and 
the policies and procedures of the International ISBN Agency. These 
rules are specified in the ISBN Standard (ISO 2108), in the ISBN 
Users’ Manual 
(https://www.isbn-international.org/content/isbn-users-manual) and 
other guidelines published from time to time by the International 
ISBN Agency. All publishers must apply for ISBNs for their books from
the appropriate ISBN registration agency. Some publishers with 
sizable publishing programmes may receive a dedicated block of ISBNs 
from the ISBN registration agency and may then assign individual 
ISBNs from these blocks to their publications as necessary. In other 
cases ISBN registration agencies may assign individual ISBNs directly
to the publisher for a specific publication.

The basic guideline for assigning ISBNs is:

•   Format/means of delivery is irrelevant to the decision whether a 
product needs an ISBN or not.  If the content meets the scope of the 
Standard, it qualifies to be assigned an ISBN, no matter what the 
format of the delivery system.

Each separate publication should have a separate ISBN. The definition
of a separate or new edition is normally based on one or more of the 
following six criteria:

•   A change in the product form: for example, the hard cover edition,
the paperback edition, the library-binding edition and each e-book 
edition would each get a separate ISBN.

•   A change in the product form details: for example, the jacketed 
hard cover edition would get a separate ISBN from the unjacketed hard
cover edition if both are available at the same time. 

•   A change in the text, excluding packaging or minor changes such as
correcting a spelling error.  

•   A change in the language of the text.

•   Specifically in the case of a digital publication a change in the 
usage constraints, e.g. adjusting the usage settings so that printing
is allowed in one, but not in another.

•   A change in the imprint name or publisher.

Although these rules are clear, their interpretation may sometimes 
vary. As RFC 2288 points out,

The choice of whether to assign a new ISBN or to continue to use the 
existing one when publishing a revised printing of an existing 
edition of a publication or even a revised edition of a publication 
is somewhat subjective since to qualify for a new ISBN the textual 
changes to the publication concerned should be ”significant”.

The use of ISBNs within the URN framework simply reflects existing 
practices and interpretations of these rules.  Note that it is likely
that an ISBN URN may resolve to many instances of the publication 
(many URLs).

These instances may be fully identical, or there may be some minor 
differences between them. Publishers have also, on occasion, 
incorrectly re-used the same ISBN for another book. This reasonably 
rare kind of human error does not threaten or undermine the value of 
the ISBN system as a whole.  Neither does it pose a serious threat to
the URN resolution service based on ISBNs.  An error such as this 
should only lead to the retrieval of two or more bibliographic 
records describing two different monographic publications.  Based on 
the information in the records, a user can choose the correct record 
from the result set.

Most national bibliographies and especially Books in Print services 
correct ISBN mistakes. Library systems often provide cross references
("incorrect ISBN -> correct ISBN"). Other systems, such as those used
by publishers and the book trade, may not always be aware of both 
ISBNs, which may have an impact on the URN resolution process. 

Further details on the process of assigning ISBNs can be found in the
section ”ISBN assignment” above.


Security and Privacy:

This document proposes the means of encoding ISBNs within the URN 
framework.  An ISBN-based URN resolution service is depicted here 
both for ISBN-10 and ISBN-13, but only at a fairly generic level; 
thus questions of secure or authenticated resolution mechanisms are 
excluded.  It does not deal with means of validating the integrity or
authenticating the source or provenance of URNs that contain ISBNs. 
Issues regarding intellectual property rights associated with objects
identified by the ISBNs are also beyond the scope of this document, 
as are questions about rights to the databases that might be used to 
construct resolvers.


Interoperability:  

ISBN is a unique and persistent identifier. An ISBN, once it has been
assigned, must never be re-used for another book.  Moreover, a single
product form of a book must never get a new ISBN unless there are 
significant changes to content or other changes such as a different 
publisher.

There may be multiple product forms of a single publication such as a
novel. In this case each product form shall receive a different ISBN.
ISO standard ISTC (International Standard Text Code, ISO 21047-2009) 
enables identification of abstract, textual works. See 
http://www.istc-international.org/ for more information. 

There are no characters in either ISBN-10 or ISBN-13 which would 
require percent-encoding. 


Resolution:  

General

Resolution means the act of supplying services related to the 
identified entity such as translating the identifier into one or more
current locators for the entity, or delivering metadata about the 
entity in an appropriate format.

For the time being, there is no decision on what resolution services 
should be supported in the URN:ISBN namespace.

Locating the appropriate resolver 

In the URN:ISBN namespace, locating the appropriate resolver 
(resolvers) is based on the ISBN semantics. All ISBN elements except 
the check digit (0-9 for ISBN-13, 0-9 or X for ISBN-10) must be taken
into account.  The registration group and registrant element 
assignments are managed in such a way that the hyphens are not needed
to parse the ISBN unambiguously into its constituent parts.  However,
the ISBN is normally transmitted and displayed with hyphens to make 
it easy for humans to recognize these elements without having to make
reference to, or have knowledge of, the assignments of registration 
group and registrant elements.  In ISBN-10, registration group 
element codes such as 91 for Sweden were unique.  In ISBN-13 only the
combination of GS1 element and registration group elements is 
guaranteed to be unique. 978-951 and 978-952 both mean Finland, but 
979-951 and 979-952 almost certainly will not; registration group 
element(s) for Finland are not yet known for ISBNs starting with 979.

The Finnish URN registry is maintained by the national library. The 
service is capable of resolving ISBN-based URNs.  URNs starting with 
URN:ISBN:978-951 or URN:ISBN:978-952 are mapped into appropriate URL 
addresses in a table maintained within the registry.  Applications, 
such as the national bibliography or the open archive of a 
university, can use the URN as the address of the resource.  There is
just one place (the registry) where the location information must be 
kept up to date.

ISBN-13 GSI element/registration group element combinations (and the 
corresponding ISBN-10 registration group identifiers, if any) usually
designate a country, but occasionally a single combination/ISBN-10 
group identifier is used to indicate a language area.  For instance, 
"978-3" (or "3" in ISBN-10) is used in Germany, Austria, and the 
German speaking parts of Belgium and Switzerland.  Note that the GS1 
element and registration group element combination "979-3" has not 
yet been assigned, and indeed may not be valid in the future; there 
is no intention to allocate the registration group elements in the 
same way as was done with ISBN-10.

Also at the time of writing, there are two regional registration 
groups: "978-976" is used by the Caribbean community and "978-982" by
the South Pacific region (see 
https://www.isbn-international.org/range_file_generation).

The registrant element may or may not be used for resolution 
purposes, depending on whether individual publishers have set up 
their resolution services.

The publication element shall enable targeting the individual 
publication.

Due to the lack of URN support in, e.g., web browsers, the URNs are 
usually expressed as HTTP URIs when embedded in documents.  The 
Finnish URN registry is located at http://urn.fi, and URNs are 
therefore expressed in the form http://urn.fi/<URN>.  For example, 
the URN http://urn.fi/URN:ISBN:978-952-10-3937-9 identifies Sami 
Nurmi's doctoral dissertation "Aspects of Inflationary Models at Low 
Energy Scales".

The Finnish URN registry cannot resolve URN:ISBNs with non-Finnish 
registration group element values until other countries establish 
their registries, and all these services become aware of each other 
and their respective registration group responsibility domains and 
are able to communicate with each other.  Thus the Finnish registry 
can deal with URN:ISBN instances with “978-91” (indicating Sweden) if
and only if the Swedish registry exists, its address is known to the 
Finnish peer and the Swedish service is capable of receiving and 
processing requests from other registries.

If a registration group element does not identify a single country 
but a language area, there are at least two means for locating the 
correct national bibliography.  First, it is possible to define a 
cascade of URN registries - for instance, German, Austrian and Swiss 
national registries, in this order - which should collectively be 
aware of resolution services such as national bibliographies for 
ISBNs starting with "978-3".  If the German registry is not able to 
find an authoritative resolution service, the request could be passed
to the Austrian one, and if there are still no hits, finally to the 
Swiss service.

Second, the registrant element ranges assigned to the publishers in 
Germany, Austria and Switzerland by the ISBN Agencies could be 
defined directly into the national registries.  This method would be 
more efficient than cascading, since the correct resolution service 
would be known immediately.  The choice between these two and any 
other possible options should be made when the establishment of the 
European network of URN registries reaches this level of maturity.

In some exceptional cases - notably in the US and in the UK, where 
international companies carry out a significant proportion of 
publishing - the information provided by the registration group 
identifier may not always be fully reliable.  For instance, some 
monographs published by international publishing companies may get an
ISBN that has the first two elements "978-3".  This may be 
technically appropriate when the headquarters of the publisher is 
located in Germany.

Information about such a book may not always be available in the 
German national bibliography, but may be available through others 
such as the Library of Congress systems.  Unfortunately, the 
German/Austrian/Swiss URN registries that should be contacted in the 
case of ISBNs that begin “978-3” may not be aware of the appropriate 
resolution service.

However, the problem posed by international publishers may well be 
less severe than it looks. Some international publishers (Springer, 
for example, which has its headquarters in Germany) give their whole 
production to the national library of their home country as legal 
deposit.  Thus everything published by Springer should be resolvable 
via the German national bibliography.

A large union catalogue, such as WorldCat (http://worldcat.org) 
maintained by OCLC could be used to complement the resolution 
services provided at the national level, or as the default service, 
if no national services exist or are known to the registry from which
the query originates.

Due to the semantic structure of ISBN, even the registrant element 
can be used as a "hint".  Technically, it is possible to establish a 
large number of URN:ISBN resolution services maintained by different 
kinds of organizations. 

For instance, "978-951-0" is the unique ISBN registrant element of 
the largest publisher in Finland, WSOY. Resolution requests for ISBNs
starting with "978-951-0" could be passed to, and dealt with, by the 
publisher's URN resolver, if and when such service is established. 
Resolvers maintained by e.g. publishers can be linked to other 
resolvers, such as the one maintained by the national library, in 
order to improve reliability and to support additional resolution 
services. 

Persistence of URN:ISBN resolution services is largely dependent on 
the persistence of publishers, libraries and other organizations 
providing those services.  Thus some services, independent of the 
base technology chosen, may disappear or their content may change 
much sooner than some peer solutions.


Documentation:  

ISBN Users’ Manual 
https://www.isbn-international.org/content/isbn-users-manual 

Additional Information:  

Web URL: http://www.isbn-international.org/


Revision Information:  

This registration is based on ISBN standard version ISO 2108:2017. 
