Namespace Identifier:

Request is made for a formal assignment:

onf

Version:

1

Date:

2018-05-31

Registrant:

Registering organization:
   Name: Open Networking Foundation (ONF)
   Address:
      1000 El Camino Real, Suite 100
      Menlo Park, California
      94205
      United States of America
   Designated contact person:
      Timon Sloane
      Role: VP Marketing & Ecosystem, ONF
      Email: timon at opennetworking.org

Purpose:

Namespace needed for identifiers defined by ONF, including those used
in YANG modules RFC 6020 [2] RFC 7950 [3].  In YANG, identifiers
identify different kinds of YANG constructs.  An identifier is a
valid namespace which provides the scope for YANG modules and the
leafs, lists, etc.

Syntax:

urn:onf:{ResourceSpecificString}

"ResourceSpecificString" identifies the information about the
resource.

ONF will manage the assignment of "ResourceSpecificString" and the
specific registration values assigned for each resource.  The syntax
of "ResourceSpecificString" must conform to the Namespace Specific
String definition in RFC 8141 [1].  When matching two ONF URNs for
equivalence, matching of the "ResourceSpecificString" is case
insensitive.  Apart from this, the rules for lexical equivalence
covered in Section 3 of RFC 8141 [1] apply.  The ONF process is found
in the ONF URN Management [4] document.

For clarity, examples of how the ONF plans to manage the IANA
provisioned NamespaceId and the ResourceSpecificString follows:

urn:{ONF-NamespaceId}:{ONF-Project}:{ONF-SubProject}:{Protocol}:{ModuleName}

o  ONF-NamespaceId: "onf" (Open Networking Foundation)

o  The ONF-Project: Example: "otcc" (Open Transport Configuration &
   Control

o  ONF-SubProject: Example: "tapi" (Transport API)

o  Protocol: Example: "yang"

o  ModuleName: Example "connectivity"

So a complete example that provides the URI for the connectivity yang
model for the tapi sub-project of the otcc project for the ONF would
be:

urn:onf:otcc:tapi:yang:connectivity

Assignment:

ONF manages this URN identification model and the assignment of
identifiers within it to resources.

Security and Privacy:

See the material in the Security Considerations (Section 7) section.

Interoperability:

The purpose of the ONF namespace and its use for YANG is meant to aid
interoperability by avoiding duplicate or conflicting namespaces.

Resolution:

No resolution mechanism is intended or anticipated.

Documentation:

The ONF maintains a Uniform Resource Names (URN) document that
provides the mechanism to ensure the resource identifiers are unique.
The ONF URN Management [4] document contains the formatting
guidelines for the URN hierarchy that is rooted at the base URN that
was assigned by IANA.

Additional Information:

None.

Revision Information:

o  v1: Initial Version, defining "onf" as the Namespace Identifier